.TH smbtatorture 1  "November 08, 2008" "version 0.0.3" "SYSTEM COMMANDS"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smbtatorture
[\-h --help] [-p password] [\-1 --share1] [\-2 --share2] [\-w --workgroup] [\-u --user] [\-c --copy] [\-r --record] [\-t --time] [\-s --size] [\-n --number] [\-v --verbose] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The smbtatorture program is part of the SMB traffic analyzer suite, which consists of
vfs_smb_traffic_analyzer(1), smbtad(1), and smbtatorture. 
.PP
The goal of smbtatorture is to simlulate a network transfer typical to a real situation
in smaller networks. It requires two shares on a samba server to run. On this shares,
it creates a user given number of files, and copies them in given time intervalls.
.PP
Being able to record the files it has copied, and when, a smbtatorture run can be re-used
for benchmarking.
.PP
smbtatorture is a tool developed for long time testing the smbtad daemon.
.PP
It is work in progress.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h \--help 
Display a short help text on the command line.
.TP
\-1 \--share1 \-2 \--share2 
This option tells smbtatorture the full smb url of the two shares it requires.
.TP
\-w \--workgroup
Specify the workgroup smbtatorture should work on.
.TP
\-u \--user
Specify the username for smbtatorture to operate on the samba server.
.TP
\-p \--password
Specify the SMB password for the user given in -u.
.TP
\-c \--copy
This specifies the amount of file copies smbtatorture will do. The default value is 0, which means infinite.
.TP
\-t \--time
Set the maximum time delay after each copy-process. smbtatorture will generate random times with that as maximum.
.TP
\-s \--size
Set the summary for all files together.
.TP
\-n \--number
Set the number of files smbtatorture should generate.
.TP
\-v \--verbose
Be verbose and print all steps to the screen.
.TP
\-r \--record
This option takes a string as argument, specifying the name of the file which will be used to record a smbtatorture session. If this option is given, a text file will be created which includes all the values to re-run exactly the same session again by using the -e option. Because a recording session cannot run infinite, you must specify the -c option with a value.
.TP
\-e \--play
This option takes a string as argument, specifying the name of the file which will be used to playback a smbtatorture session. If this option is given, the file given in the argument will be opened, and the parameters stored in the file are used to run a smbtatorture session. Currently, the fileset will not be created, and the option relies on that the files are already existing.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
This will generate 25 files with a total size of 500 Megabyte, copy them 200 times and after each copy wait for a maximum time of 15 seconds. smbtatorture will be verbose, and tries to login to the samba services as user 'user' and with password 'password'.

smbtatorture -u user -p password -1 smb://test.domain.com/Pool1 -2 smb://test.domain.com/Pool2 -v -c 200 -s 500M -t 15 -n 25
.TP
This will create a smbtatorture session with 10 files, at a total size of 200MB. It will copy around those files between the shares 'smb://test.domain.com//pool1' and 'smb://test.domain.com//pool2' for 6 times, be verbose, and waits a maximum of 10 seconds between each copy. The session will be recorded to the file 'record.txt'.

smbtatorture -u user -p password -1 smb://test.domain.com/pool1 -2 smb://test.domain.com/pool2 -v -c 6 -s 200M -t 10 -n 10 -r record.txt

.TP
This will playback the session 'record.txt', be verbose, using the shares 'smb://test.domain.com//pool1' and 'smb://test.domain.com//pool2'.

smbtatorture -u user -p password -1 smb://test.domain.com/pool1 -2 smb://test.domain.com/pool2 -v -e record.txt


